Hello and welcome to building
the very last part of the Natours Project
and that is the popup that I showed you before.
So in this lecture you'll learn how to build a nice popup
with only CSS, and this time we're not using
the checkbox hack for that functionality,
but instead we're using the target pseudo-class.
But with this popup component, I don't only want to show you
how this actually works, but I'll also teach you
how to create boxes with equal height
using display set to table-cell.
Plus I want to give you some tools for text formatting
like creating column layouts and automatic hyphenation
of words using the new hyphens property.
Let's start by taking a detailed look
how this popup actually works.
So you open the popup by clicking on one of these
Book Now buttons here that appears on one of these cards.
Okay, so when we hit, we see that the background here
basically becomes dark, right,
and we also see then this box here basically coming in
so with a nice animation.
And of course, all of this is on top of the entire webpage
so even off the navigation button.
You can maybe see it here.
It's hidden behind this complete popup.
And also this is at a complete fixed position,
so we can scroll and maybe you can see that
as well in the background.
All right, so I'm scrolling up and down,
but this popup here stays in the same place.
So we have an element which fills this entire part here
so the entire viewport, and then in there we have
this box here which is a popup itself.
Okay, so let's start by coding that up in our HTML.
And we can actually put this wherever we want on a markup
because it's not really tied
to any of the sections or anything.
So let's just put it here really at the end of everything,
so even after the footer, let's say.
And so it's just a div, and I'm gonna call it popup.
And so that is for that dark background,
and then in there we have the box itself.
So popup and let's call it content,
so it's the content of our popup.
All right, let's write in popup here
because for now we're gonna leave this one empty,
and we'll just focus on styling
that background and that box,
so in order to make it look exactly like this.
And that is actually the challenge that I have for you.
I want you to style this background and then position this
white box here exactly where it is right now.
And as you can imagine, it will always stay here
nicely centered, so no matter what we do with the viewport,
it always stays nicely centered.
And so I want you to code that in CSS.
Pause the video now and do that.
Hopefully you did that.
So let me do it right now in order to show you.
I create a New File here, and this is, I think,
the last file that we're ever gonna create
so that's good, right,
so popup-scss, of course.
And don't forget it to include.
All right, close it and here we go.
So popup and we also want the content.
The height should be 100, viewport height, right,
so 100% of the height.
The width should be 100% which is actually maybe
not really necessary, but let's keep it here.
It's not a problem of having one line of redundant CSS.
Okay, so let's keep this here.
Then as you know, the position is, well, it is fixed,
so it doesn't move as we scroll.
And then we can use top and left and all that stuff
in order to position it, top zero, left zero.
Just like absolute positioning, it's taken out of the flow.
Now the background-color, let's make it
a slightly transparent black.
So color-black, let's say 80%.
Okay, so that should now occupy the entire viewport.
Let's take just a look at that, and yeah, so here we go.
Well, actually not really what we want
because it's still here on top of this button.
So we give it a really high z-index in order to fix that,
so something like this and that should help.
All right, you see, so now it's really on top
of the entire page.
And now as for the content, let's start by giving it
a width of let's say 75%,
so it's gonna occupy always 75% of the container
and therefore of the viewport as well.
Let's give it a nice background-color
and actually not really nice,
it's just white, okay, so color-white,
And actually I will also give it a height here,
but only for testing purposes.
We did that before and so let's do it again.
So 50rem here again, and I'm gonna get rid of that later.
Also we want some box-shadow, so zero,
let's say 2rem and four for the blur,
and of course, color-black, let's say 0.2.
Okay, and now the positioning of this element
inside of the popup.
Well, once again, we're using absolute positioning here.
Now this time let me actually create a mix in here
because I'm a bit tired of always writing this out.
And so you should do the same, maybe you already did
because I've talked about this before.
I'm gonna call this one absolute center.
And so all that's gonna do is to simply add
position absolute, top 50%,
left 50%, and then transform
translate(-50%, -50%).
And so now we have this reusable piece of code
that we can now insert here wherever we want.
I like to do that at the beginning actually,
so include absCenter,
so that stands for absolute center.
Now I could go ahead and open up all of these files
and replace all of this code in each time
where we have used it, but I'm not gonna do that
in order not to waste your time.
But for you, I think it's something that you should do
in order to make your code look a bit cleaner.
So let's now take a look at that, and alright,
so that looks pretty good already, right.
It's pretty similar already to what we have in our original.
Just some rounded corners here missing,
but beside that we're good to go.
So what's next here?
Well, we have basically this left side here
with these two images and then the right side with this text
and this button and this h2 element here.
And on this right side, like this right panel here,
we have this entire content like vertically centered
and that is because these boxes here,
they're actually the same size.
So this here is a box and this one is a box
and they have the same height.
And so I told you before that that's something
that I want to show you so how to make
two boxes side by side
having automatically the same height.
So that can be very useful sometimes,
and it's something I haven't showed you up until this point
so let's create this content in here.
But first these rounded corners that we were missing,
so border-radius: 3px.
All right, now coming back to this popup here,
I'm gonna call this one popup simply for the left side
and then for the right side, of course.
Okay, so in here we have some pictures, so img.
Then img/nat-8,
and it is simply a Tour photo.
And again and this time it's img/nat-9
and another Tour photo.
Also I should give them a class,
so popup_img.
And as for the left side, we want a heading secondary here.
So it's an h2.heading-secondary,
and this one says Start booking now.
Then below that we actually have an h3,
so that we called heading-tertiary,
Important, then using like a long dash
and it's something that I like to use,
so I'm gonna show it to you.
This is another one of these HTML entities
that I use all the time.
And enter something like, Please read
these terms before booking.
Now in a real life scenario, it would probably
not be a good idea to ask the client to first
read the terms before booking, but in this page here,
we're not really worried about that kind of stuff.
I just created these parts of the websites
and these features in order to show you
all of these CSS features.
Don't just copy what I have done on this webpage.
It's not optimized for conversions
or for anything like that.
This is just to show you these CSS features again.
All right, and finally just some popup_text
here in a paragraph.
All right, now let's get some text here from one
of these Lorem Ipsum generators
that I've already opened here.
I think I've showed you this one before.
And I'll just say that I want it
to generate one paragraph for me.
So here we go, and I copy all of it and paste it here.
All right, so that's a long line of text.
Now actually I want a button here.
So a.btn.btn__green,
pointing to nowhere at least for now.
Okay, so Book now.
All right, so let's now format these,
so left, right, image, and text.
Left, right,
img, and text.
Let's actually start with the images because otherwise
they will occupy a lot of space
and then we cannot see what's going on.
I want these images to be displayed as a block.
That's usually a good idea to do,
and then I want them to have a width of 100%,
so entirely their entire parent container's width.
Now another thing that I should actually do here already
is getting rid of this height.
Remember it was just for testing purposes and so yeah.
Now the left part here, we want it to have a width of 1/3,
so basically 33.333333%.
And it's not an exaggeration to put such a high amount
of these numbers here after the comma,
so we can totally do that.
And so this one should be the remainder of that,
so 66.6666667, for example.
Six would also be okay, so it's not really important here.
But notice that these two roughly together make 100%.
Let's take a look at that.
Of course, it will not be really good
because now we want these side by side.
And the first thing that comes to mind for doing that
is to actually use float.
So let me start by showing that to you, so float left
and float left.
It could be right as well, but it doesn't really matter
because they have 100% together anyway,
so it's not different.
Okay, and now they are side by side such as we wanted.
But let me show you the small problem with that.
It's not really a big problem,
but you see here that this left element has
this entire height, and then the right one only has
this height, of course, because that's the space
that it occupies.
That's completely normal behavior.
Now what we want here is that these boxes
actually have the same height because then it's easier
to center this content here vertically in the middle
of all of this white space here.
And so sometimes that's a very useful thing to do
and a very useful technique that I'm gonna show you.
Let me actually show you how to do that.
It's not using floats, but instead
we're gonna simulate a table.
And so we set the display property
on this one here to table-cell,
so on both of them,
display table-cell.
And then the parent element which is, remember, the content,
so this one here, we set this one to display table.
This one functions as a table, the content,
and then the left and the right they are both table cells.
And then the browser will automatically
give them the same height.
Let's take a look at that.
And well, for now it still looks the same.
So content left and right, but you see that they
now both basically here have the same height.
And now all that's left to do is to use a property
that we can use on tables or on table cells actually
and this is called vertical-align middle.
Let's take a look at that now, and here we go.
Now we have two table cells basically where this one here
has its content aligned in the middle
of the other table cell basically.
Let's take a look at that here.
All right, and so the height is actually still only 542,
so only this blue box that you see here.
And so technically they do not have the same height,
but we can consider that they do because when we use
this vertical align then, they nicely align here like this.
And of course, there are others instead of middle,
there is like top, and so it works the same,
and also bottom, I believe, yeah, and so we can do this
kind of thing basically by faking that this is a table.
Because if it was a real table we would have to use
the HTML elements for all of that.
But by setting it using the display property,
we are basically faking and saying that this is a table
while in fact it's not.
So let's continuing now formatting this,
giving it here some nice padding.
Actually this is misspelled here.
And another thing that I'm seeing here is that these images
here overlap the border radius that we gave here,
this one here, right, and so let's fix that as well.
Do you remember how we do that
with the image overlapping the border?
Well, we did it before and it's not really difficult.
All we have to do is come to the content here and say
overflow hidden, and so that part of the image
which is overflowing this box will not be visible anymore.
And yup, maybe you saw it changing here,
and so now it's gone and it works just fine.
All right, now about the padding here in this right thing,
some padding at the top and then on the side some more,
so 5rem in here.
Then about the text, let's give it
some font size of 1.4 only, 1.4rem,
and also a margin at the bottom in order to create
that space between the bottom and the text.
Just making the word look right,
and so here we go.
That looks pretty nice already.
Let's just add some more spacing here to these two
and for that we can use more helper classes.
So margin-bottom and I'm gonna use the small
and the medium one.
For the secondary heading we can add it in here,
the medium one and then here small.
So that should look better.
Or maybe, well maybe not, we can put the small one here
as well and now it looks more consistent.
Now one last piece missing here in the puzzle to make it
look like this one, so where is it,
to make it look a bit more like this one,
is these columns that we have here and also this
automatic hyphenation that I mentioned in the beginning.
So you have a word and then here there's not enough space
for it, and so there's a hyphen
and it continues on the next line.
And actually if you select it, it selects both parts,
so that's really nice as well.
If we decrease this here, then we see that even more
hyphens start to pop up as we have less and less space
to fit the content here.
That's a very nice and new feature in CSS,
and so let us take a look at that actually.
Back to our CSS and let's start with the columns.
Column layout is something really new in CSS,
but we can make it work in most
of the modern browsers already.
All we have to do is to specify
a property called column-count.
We say that you want two columns
and so that's all we have to do.
And with this, it will automatically create two columns.
Now there are some more details that we can do here
which is column-gap, and so in here
we can specify the space that we want between the columns.
And the default here is is one em,
but we want it to be a little bigger here.
Just for curiosity, what would be one em here
in this specific case?
Can you think about that?
What would be the default for the column gap
if that's one em?
And I hope you guessed it right.
It would be 1em = 14px, okay.
And why is that?
Well, because one em is always the font size
of the current element.
So just as a reminder so you don't forget
what this em here actually means.
But in this case, we just want to set it to 4rem
so that we give it some more breathing space.
Then another interesting property here is the column-rule.
This is basically just like a border which will be
exactly in the middle of these two columns,
so the browser will automatically put it there.
And so let's put a light color here, so color-grey.
Now I don't really remember the color names here,
so let's simply put this one here, so the number two.
And where is it?
Actually we can close this one here and the mixins as well,
so color-grey-2 here.
All right, so let's take a look now,
maybe reload it.
And well, nothing happened for some reason.
Let's inspect that.
So popup text, well it's not really there.
Why is that?
Well, everything should be okay,
so let's try to reload this one more time.
For some reason, it's not really there.
This looks like maybe there was some kind
of error here again and okay.
So color-grey-2 does not exist.
Why is that?
Okay probably I misspelled it.
Let's just get it here, copy it.
Oh okay, I forgot to call it light.
All right, and so usually when something doesn't appear
on the page, well, then it's most likely
a CSS compilation error.
So that happens to us a couple of times now,
but now it is finally working.
Okay, and so here it is.
Here are our two columns and our nice line here
separating these two.
Let me show you what happens if we decrease the gap.
And so at zero, of course, these two sides
they are then touching.
And we could increase the count, of course.
So three columns, four columns, five columns,
and so on and so forth.
So what you see here is that CSS automatically balances
the height here of these columns.
You see that in the first column and the second column
they have the same height as they still have enough text
to display and then the last one here where the text ends.
Well, then the rest of the column here is, of course, empty.
And if you increase that you will see
the same thing happening, so that the text
is always nicely distributed here.
Now I think we have a bit too much text here
so let's get rid of part of that.
So this looks a bit weird right now.
Maybe this part here, where is that?
All right, so that should be better.
And now the final thing that we want to do here
is the hyphenation, and that one is really easy as well.
So hyphens, and then there are three possibilities here.
The first one is none which is basically
the initial value, so the default.
Then we have manual, so we could say manual,
but that's not really useful because if we say manual
then we can go to our text and automatically specify
where we want hyphens to occur.
So we can do that then here in our text
and specify places where we want that to occur.
But I think that's not helpful at all and so I think
the only thing that matters here for this hyphens property
is to actually use auto, and so it will automatically
figure out where to place the hyphens.
Now in order for this to work correctly,
you have to actually define the document language here.
So up here in the html, you have this language attribute
and in here just edit to English, if your website is English
into your language if it's not.
You can just Google the code that you have
to put here for your language.
Now in this case, it's not really English,
this is probably Latin or something,
but you see that the hyphens are already working.
So they are here in this word and this and this one
and so yeah, so this is working already.
And these two properties together, so the columns
and the hyphens, this allows us to get closer
to the traditional print designs like a magazine layout
or a real newspaper.
And so that's why these properties were introduced.
And you see that it also nicely changes here
the hyphenation, everything as the width changes,
and so yeah, this is already nicely responsive actually.
Just one thing that I have to tell you in the end
is that this actually needs a lot of prefixes
in order to work in all the modern browsers.
So we should give it a moz prefix, actually copy this.
So for Mozilla,
for Microsoft, so for Edge,
and also for webkit which is basically Chrome and Safari
because in some older versions
it will not work without this.
And actually the same thing here applies to the columns.
So here we should have
at least the Mozilla prefix.
In Mozilla it's not gonna work without this prefix,
and so we should add it.
Now we are now doing this manually just because I want
to show you that you need these prefixes.
But in the real life, you should not do it by hand,
but instead there are nice tools that you can use
in order to do that, and one of them is called Autoprefixer
but I'm gonna talk a bit more about that
later on in the course.
So for now, just remember that usually you shouldn't
add the prefixes by yourself.
I'm just putting them here now so that you know
which property is supported in which browser.
All right, and so I think we now have
the styling part here complete.
And so in the next lecture, let's then take care
of the functionality, so basically
opening and closing this popup,
because that's what's really missing in here.
So let's move on now to that next lecture.